# digital-marketing-im.github.io

Digital Marketing for B2B Investment Management

PwC anticipates that global assets under management within the investment management industry will reach $145.4 trillion by 2025, up from $111.2 trillion in 2020. We’ve seen many structural changes over the last decade – fee pressures, the rise of passive management and sustainable investing, new investment vehicles, industry consolidation and specialisation, FinTech, increased access to private investments, increased regulation, and commission-free trading – and disruption is probably on the way, but there is clearly a huge growth opportunity for incumbent firms.

Frankly, when it comes to marketing, business-to-business investment management is still lagging behind other industries. And worryingly, there’s a growing sense that firms don’t really need a marketing team – or at the very least, it’s not clear what value marketing is adding. In what is a traditionally relationship-led business, money flows in regardless of marketing activity, strict regulation hampers creativity, and the lack of expertise and skill of marketing teams has damaged their credibility with sales teams. This is compounded further by unique characteristics of investment products, and the long-term business-to-business sales-cycle, which make it impossible to truly measure marketing’s impact. As the industry evolves and firms consolidate, getting marketing right will become essential.

You may have sat through buzzword-laden pitches by marketing agencies, with promises of data lakes, single customer views, and marketing attribution. But have you ever seen any of these put into practice? I haven’t. Yet, despite this, marketing teams still naively buy into a vision of perfection, purchasing expensive software they don’t know how to use and attempting projects that are impossible to deliver. To make it worse, most teams don’t have a strategy in place. Inevitably, this means they end up in an aimless cycle of producing content that no one asked for, sending it into a black hole, and presenting vanity metrics to colleagues who simply aren’t interested. Those visionary projects soon fall by the wayside. But because investment management firms are still taking in money and generating high profit margins, there are no real consequences to this cycle: budgets are spent, everyone gets paid, and nobody challenges anything. I call it “playing at working”. 

As marketers, I believe we can do better. Over the last decade, I’ve worked at a variety of investment management firms in digital and product marketing – J.P. Morgan Asset Management, PIMCO, Brown Advisory, and iM Global Partner – during which I’ve created my own approach to digital marketing for B2B investment management.

First, we put aside this (entirely fictional) utopian vision that has infected marketing teams and start again. Then, we make sure that we fully understand our firm, what it offers, it’s target clients, and how it conducts business. We keep things simple and clear. Our focus shifts to what clients and prospects want, how they behave, and how we can be truly authentic. Only projects that are realistic and can be delivered are taken on. This approach will allow us to truly support the sales team to deliver real business results, give us more clarity and purpose, and demonstrate to the wider business that the marketing team can add value.

This guide introduces a digital marketing strategy for the B2B investment management industry that you can use within your own firm. It’s simple and straightforward, but effective. You will be introduced to a fictional investment management firm which will be the subject of a series of case studies to demonstrate how you can tackle each step of the process – which you can then adapt for your own use. I hope you find it useful.


Present the problem or question your book addresses in a way that makes it seem essential reading to those both familiar and not familiar with the subject. Outline specifically who would be interested in this problem or question, to demonstrate existing interest in your book. Demonstrate why readers should care about the problem or question you are writing about. Give an indication of your approach to writing the book, and its content. Explain why YOU are the best-qualified person in the world to write this book. Demonstrate why the book will appeal to a large enough market to make publishing it worthwhile and hopefully profitable.

